
7th ACM SIGPLAN International Workshop on Functional Art, Music, Modelling and Design
Berlin, Germany, August 23rd, 2019

Key Dates:

Paper submission deadline        May 15
Performance submission deadline  May 22
Author Notification              June 17
Camera Ready                     June 30


Call for Papers and Demos:

The ACM SIGPLAN International Workshop on Functional Art, Music,
Modelling and Design (FARM) gathers together people who are harnessing
functional techniques in the pursuit of creativity and expression.  It
is co-located with ICFP 2019, the 24th ACM SIGPLAN International
Conference on Functional Programming.

Functional Programming has emerged as a mainstream software
development paradigm, and its artistic and creative use is booming. A
growing number of software toolkits, frameworks and environments for
art, music and design now employ functional programming languages and
techniques. FARM is a forum for exploration and critical evaluation of
these developments, for example to consider potential benefits of
greater consistency, tersity, and closer mapping to a problem domain.

FARM encourages submissions from across art, craft and design,
including textiles, visual art, music, 3D sculpture, animation, GUIs,
video games, 3D printing and architectural models, choreography,
poetry, and even VLSI layouts, GPU configurations, or mechanical
engineering designs. Theoretical foundations, language design,
implementation issues, and applications in industry or the arts are
all within the scope of the workshop. The language used need not be
purely functional (“mostly functional” is fine), and may be manifested
as a domain specific language or tool. Moreover, submissions focusing
on questions or issues about the use of functional programming are
within the scope.

FARM 2019 website : http://functional-art.org/2019/


Submissions

We welcome submissions from academic, professional, and independent
programmers and artists.

Submission is via EasyChair : https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=farm2019

Submissions are invited in two categories:

1) Original papers

We solicit original papers in the following categories:

- Original research
- Overview / state of the art
- Technology tutorial

All submissions must propose an original contribution to the FARM
theme. FARM is an interdisciplinary conference, so a wide range of
approaches are encouraged.

An original paper should have 10 to 25 pages, be in portable document
format (PDF), using the ACM SIGPLAN style guidelines and use the ACM
SIGPLAN template. [ http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Author/ ]

Accepted papers will be published in the ACM Digital Library as part
of the FARM 2019 proceedings. See http://authors.acm.org/main.cfm for
information on the options available to authors. Authors are
encouraged to submit auxiliary material for publication along with
their paper (source code, data, videos, images, etc.); authors retain
all rights to the auxiliary material.

2) Demo proposals

Demo proposals should describe a demonstration to be given at the FARM
workshop and its context, connecting it with the themes of FARM. A
demo could be in the form of a short (10-20 minute) tutorial,
presentation of work-in-progress, an exhibition of some work, or even
a performance. Demo proposals should be in plain text, HTML or
Markdown format, and not exceed 2000 words. A demo proposal should be
clearly marked as such, by prepending Demo Proposal: to the title.

Demo proposals should be in the form of extended abstracts and will be
published on the FARM website. A summary of the
demo performances will also be published as part of the conference
proceedings, to be prepared by the program chair.


Authors take note

The official publication date is the date the proceedings are made
available in the ACM Digital Library. This date may be up to two weeks
prior to the first day of your conference. The official publication
date affects the deadline for any patent filings related to published
work.

At least one author of each accepted submission will be expected to
attend and present their paper at the conference. The schedule for
presentations will be determined and shared with authors after the full
program has been selected.


Finances

The performance evening will be free entry, although tickets will be
limited. Unfortunately we are not able to offer an artist fee. In order
to support broad participation we are able to offer the following, thanks
to the support of ICFP and its sponsors.

If you are an independent artist performing in the evening, but not
presenting a paper during the daytime workshop, we are able to offer
free registration to the workshop, and may also be able to support
inland travel expenses in some circumstances.

If you do not fit the description of "independent artist who is not
presenting a paper at the workshop", but would nonetheless have financial
difficulty attending, there is still the opportunity to apply for
conference "PAC" funds.

Please get in touch for more information in either case.


Questions

If you have any questions about what type of contributions that might
be suitable, or anything else regarding submission or the workshop
itself, please contact the organizers at:

farm-2019@functional-art.org

All presentations at FARM 2019 will be recorded. Permission to publish
the resulting video (in all probability on YouTube, along with the
videos of ICFP itself and the other ICFP-colocated events) will be
requested on-site.
