FARM 2020 Call for Papers, Demos, and Performances
Online, August 28, 2020

The ACM SIGPLAN International Workshop on Functional Art, Music, Modelling and
Design (FARM) gathers together people who are harnessing functional techniques
in the pursuit of creativity and expression. FARM encourages submissions from
across art, craft, and design, including textiles, visual art, music, 3D
sculpture, animation, GUIs, video games, 3D printing and architectural models,
choreography, poetry, and even VLSI layouts, GPU configurations, or mechanical
engineering designs. Theoretical foundations, language design, implementation
issues, and applications in industry or the arts are all within the scope of the
workshop.

In addition to the main workshop, FARM hosts a traditional evening of
performances.  Thus, this call encompasses both papers/demos for the workshop
(and its published proceedings) as well as performance proposals for the
evening's event.  Authors are invited to make a single submission for each.
Authors may submit both a paper/demo and performance proposal, but the
submissions will be considered independently.

PAPERS (CLOSED)

We welcome submissions from academic, professional, and independent programmers
and artists. Paper submissions are invited in three categories:

- Original research
- Overview / state of the art
- Technology tutorial

All submissions must propose an original contribution to the FARM theme. FARM is
an interdisciplinary conference, so a wide range of approaches are encouraged.
An original paper should have 5 to 12 pages, be in portable document format
(PDF), and use the ACM SIGPLAN style guides and template (using the SIGPLAN
sub-format). Accepted papers will be published in the ACM Digital Library as
part of the FARM 2020 proceedings. See here for information on the options
available to authors. Authors are encouraged to submit auxiliary material for
publication along with their paper (source code, data, videos, images, etc.);
authors retain all rights to the auxiliary material.

DEMO PROPOSALS (CLOSED)

Demo proposals should describe a demonstration to be given at the FARM workshop
and its context, connecting it with the themes of FARM. A demo could be in the
form of a short (10-20 minute) tutorial, presentation of work-in-progress, an
exhibition of some work, or even a performance. Demo proposals should be in the
form of an extended abstract (500 to 2000 words). A demo proposal should be
clearly marked as such, by prepending “Demo Proposal:” to the title. Demo
proposals will be published on the FARM website.

PERFORMANCE PROPOSALS (OPEN)

Extended submission deadline: August 1st

FARM's Performance Night is seeking audio/visual works that utilize functional 
programming techniques. Submissions need not be completely made with functional 
techniques - hybrid works are also welcome. Both fixed media and interactive 
systems are welcome, and we encourage a creative interpretation of what 
‘performance’ means in order to encompass a truly broad range of creative 
functional endeavors. We also encourage submissions from people of all backgrounds
– students, hobbyists, and professionals alike. 

FARM invites a diverse range of functionally-themed submissions including music, 
video, dance, and performance art. We encourage both risk-taking proposals that 
push forward the state of the art and refined presentations of highly developed 
practice. There are no submission/registration fees for FARM performers. 

Works created in part or in whole by autonomous systems are also welcome, but 
subject to the constraint that the submitting author(s) must have made a significant 
contribution to the creation of the system itself. 

Due to current travel restrictions and social distancing guidelines, all performances 
will be held online.  Details of the exact technological accommodations available for 
this at ICFP are still forthcoming. As such, creating recordings of live audio/visual 
works as a backup option is strongly encouraged.

Submission deadline:  August 1, 2020 (notification to take place on a rolling basis)
Submission materials: a sample recording (audio or video) and a description explaining how functional programming was involved in the work.
All performance submissions must be made through EasyChair.
Please send any performance-related questions directly to Donya Quick (donyaquick@gmail.com) 


IMPORTANT DATES/DEADLINES:

Papers/Demos Submission Deadline: May 15th
Papers/Demos Author Notification: June 19th
Papers/Demos Camera Ready:        July 3rd
Performance Submission Deadline:  August 1st (notification on a rolling basis)
Online Workshop:                  August 28th

SUBMISSION

Submissions for papers, demos, and performances are accepted via the
[**Submission page on Easychair**](https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=farm2020).
(Please do NOT send submissions by email.)

AUTHORS TAKE NOTE

For original papers and demos, the official publication date is the date the
proceedings are made available in the ACM Digital Library. This date may be up
to two weeks prior to the first day of the conference. The official publication
date affects the deadline for any patent filings related to published work.

All presentations at FARM 2020 will be recorded. Permission to publish the
resulting video (in all probability on YouTube, along with the videos of ICFP
itself and the other ICFP-colocated events) will be requested on-site.

FINANCES

If you would have financial difficulty attending, you can apply for conference
"PAC" funds. Please get in touch for more information.

QUESTIONS

If you have any questions about what type of contributions that might be
suitable, or anything else regarding submission or the workshop itself, please
contact the organizers at: `farm-2020@functional-art.org`

WORKSHOP ORGANIZATION

General chair:     Daniel Winograd-Cort (Target)
Program chair:     Jean-Louis Giavitto (IRCAM Paris)
Performance chair: Donya Quick (Stevens Institute of Technology)
